README.md, before:

# MTA-Subway-OD-Ridership-Script

## Context
This repo is related to the MTA's first Open Data Challenge in Fall 2024. 

### Official Project Description 
```"The MTA is excited to announce our first-ever Open Data Challenge! This month-long competition invites community members, developers, and data enthusiasts to harness the power of MTA's open data. Participants will develop a project that creatively utilizes at least one MTA open dataset."```
Read the full challenge description [here](https://new.mta.info/article/mta-open-data-challenge). 

### My Entry
- MTA Dataset I used: [MTA Subway Origin-Destination Ridership Estimate: 2024](https://data.ny.gov/Transportation/MTA-Subway-Origin-Destination-Ridership-Estimate-2/jsu2-fbtj/about_data) 
- Goal: Use a Jupyter Python script to aggregate the above data to get total estimate subway passengers for 2024 for every MTA NYC subway station. Then create a Origin-Destination (OD) Map using Tableau to visualize where subway NYC subway passengers have been going. 
- Motivation? I am a big maps and train nerd and I thought this project would be a great challenge to learn a new tool I've never used before (Tableau) and challenge my old skills in Python and Jupyter. 
- Inspiration: This [guide by Timea Demeter](https://www.theinformationlab.co.uk/community/blog/how-to-create-an-origin-destination-map-in-tableau/) creating an airline OD Map in Tableau.

Commit message:

Update README to link up Tableau visualization

README.md, after:

# MTA-Subway-OD-Ridership-Script

## Final OD Map Visualization in Tableau
Check out the final Origin-Destination visualization I created using this script in public Tableau. 

[MTA Subway Origin Destination Ridership Estimate Map 2024](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/christian.vasquez.leon/viz/MTA_OD_Book_Final/FinalMTADashboard)


## Context
This repo is related to the MTA's first Open Data Challenge in Fall 2024. 

### Official Project Description 
```"The MTA is excited to announce our first-ever Open Data Challenge! This month-long competition invites community members, developers, and data enthusiasts to harness the power of MTA's open data. Participants will develop a project that creatively utilizes at least one MTA open dataset."```
Read the full challenge description [here](https://new.mta.info/article/mta-open-data-challenge). 

### My Entry
- MTA Dataset I used: [MTA Subway Origin-Destination Ridership Estimate: 2024](https://data.ny.gov/Transportation/MTA-Subway-Origin-Destination-Ridership-Estimate-2/jsu2-fbtj/about_data) 
- Goal: Use a Jupyter Python script to aggregate the above data to get total estimate subway passengers for 2024 for every MTA NYC subway station. Then create a Origin-Destination (OD) Map using Tableau to visualize where NYC subway passengers have been going. 
- Motivation? I am a big maps and train nerd and I thought this project would be a great challenge to learn a new tool I've never used before (Tableau) and challenge my old skills in Python and Jupyter. 
- Inspiration: This [guide by Timea Demeter](https://www.theinformationlab.co.uk/community/blog/how-to-create-an-origin-destination-map-in-tableau/) creating an airline OD Map in Tableau. 


### Important Callouts
- The actual dataset used to create the public Tableau visualization was over Github's 100 MB file limit so I could upload a small sample of the dataset I used. 
- If you would like to recreate, would have to download the full dataset which is about 6+ GB.
